posts/how-to-start-theme-with-shopify-cli.mdx, before:

---
title: How to start a theme with Shopify CLI
description: "Start a shopify theme from scratch"
date: Oct 20 2022
---

Building a Shopify theme from scratch can take a team of developers up to six months. This is because
of the requirements needed to be met at the Shopify theme store (https://shopify.dev/themes/store/requirements).
But we can try to build a minimal theme just to see what are the files and directory structure necessary
to render the simplest theme.

![directory structure](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-theme-architecture.png)

Although seven directories are required to start a theme, we are going to limit the structure to only
two folders:
* config/
* layout/

Then we create only two files: 
* layout/theme.liquid
* config/settings_schema.json

The contents of **theme.liquid** are:
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>My Shop</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Welcome to my Awesome Shop</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

And withing **settings_schema.json** we add the code snippet:
```
[
    {
      "name": "theme_info",
      "theme_name": "My Theme",
      "theme_author": "Shopify",
      "theme_version": "1.0.0",
      "theme_documentation_url": "https:\/\/futuretheme.com",
      "theme_support_url": "https:\/\/support.futuretheme.com\/"
    }
]
```

Assuming you already installed shopify cli 
(instructions here: https://shopify.dev/themes/tools/cli/installation), the next step is to connect to
your shopify store via the command line:

```
shopify login --store mystore.myshopify.com
```

And then push the content to the shopify development store:
```
shopify theme push
```

Sometimes there is an error message if you don't have set the connection properly:
```
Your environment Ruby version, 2.7.2, is outside of the range supported by the CLI, 2.7.5..<3.2.0, 
and might cause incompatibility issues.
You can't use Shopify CLI with development stores if you only have Partner staff member access. 
If you want to use Shopify CLI to work on a development store, then you should be the store owner or 
create a staff account on the store.

If you're the store owner, then you need to log in to the store directly using the store URL at 
least once (for example, using awesomebizz.myshopify.com/admin) before you log in using Shopify CLI. 
Logging in to the Shopify admin directly connects the development store with your Shopify login.
```
To upgrade the Ruby installation on Windows you can try:
```
choco upgrade ruby
```

To solve the second problem I created a staff account and logged in using the new staff member email.
In the development store you have to go to settings/Users and Permissions and click **Add staff** button.

![add staff](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-add-staff-invite.png)

![add staff](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-send-invite.png)

The new staff member must accept the email invitation and then log in to be able to use the CLI.

![command line login](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-command-login.png)

![successful login](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-successful-login.png)

After you are authenticated you can push your changes to the development store.

The next command checks whether the folder architecture is compliant with what shopify requires.
```
shopify theme check
```

You can use the _shopify theme check_ to see if there are any mistakes or missing files. Actually there 
are a lot of missing files, so the output is going to complain about that.

![command errors](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-errors.png)

This is how the landing page looks like:
![](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-main-page.png)

Commit message:

Add info about github connection

posts/how-to-start-theme-with-shopify-cli.mdx, after:

---
title: How to start a theme with Shopify CLI
description: "Start a shopify theme from scratch"
date: Oct 20 2022
---

Building a Shopify theme from scratch can take a team of developers up to six months. This is because
of the requirements needed to be met at the Shopify theme store (https://shopify.dev/themes/store/requirements).
But we can try to build a minimal theme just to see what are the files and directory structure necessary
to render the simplest theme.

![directory structure](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-theme-architecture.png)

Although seven directories are required to start a theme, we are going to limit the structure to only
two folders:
* config/
* layout/

Then we create only two files: 
* layout/theme.liquid
* config/settings_schema.json

The contents of **theme.liquid** are:
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>My Shop</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Welcome to my Awesome Shop</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

And withing **settings_schema.json** we add the code snippet:
```
[
    {
      "name": "theme_info",
      "theme_name": "My Theme",
      "theme_author": "Shopify",
      "theme_version": "1.0.0",
      "theme_documentation_url": "https:\/\/futuretheme.com",
      "theme_support_url": "https:\/\/support.futuretheme.com\/"
    }
]
```
One way of connecting to the development store is to push these files to a Github repository and then 
connect the store to Github. This is done in the admin section of the store where there is a 
dropdown to add a theme from Github.

![connect to github](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-add-theme-github.png)

![connect to github](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-connect-theme.png)

After you connect to your Github account, you have to choose the repository where the code resides.

Assuming you already installed shopify cli 
(instructions here: https://shopify.dev/themes/tools/cli/installation), the next step is to connect to
your shopify store via the command line:

```
shopify login --store mystore.myshopify.com
```

And then push the content to the shopify development store:
```
shopify theme push
```

Sometimes there is an error message if you don't have set the connection properly:
```
Your environment Ruby version, 2.7.2, is outside of the range supported by the CLI, 2.7.5..<3.2.0, 
and might cause incompatibility issues.
You can't use Shopify CLI with development stores if you only have Partner staff member access. 
If you want to use Shopify CLI to work on a development store, then you should be the store owner or 
create a staff account on the store.

If you're the store owner, then you need to log in to the store directly using the store URL at 
least once (for example, using awesomebizz.myshopify.com/admin) before you log in using Shopify CLI. 
Logging in to the Shopify admin directly connects the development store with your Shopify login.
```
To upgrade the Ruby installation on Windows you can try:
```
choco upgrade ruby
```

To solve the second problem I created a staff account and logged in using the new staff member email.
In the development store you have to go to settings/Users and Permissions and click **Add staff** button.

![add staff](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-add-staff-invite.png)

![add staff](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-send-invite.png)

The new staff member must accept the email invitation and then log in to be able to use the CLI.

![command line login](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-command-login.png)

![successful login](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-successful-login.png)

After you are authenticated you can push your changes to the development store.

The next command checks whether the folder architecture is compliant with what shopify requires.
```
shopify theme check
```

You can use the _shopify theme check_ to see if there are any mistakes or missing files. Actually there 
are a lot of missing files, so the output is going to complain about that.

![command errors](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-errors.png)

This is how the landing page looks like:
![](https://shopifyblog.s3.amazonaws.com/shop-main-page.png)
